So, Richard just showed you some of the flaws with HTTP/1 and
said that HTTP/2 would solve them. But how does he do it?
Well, take out your note-taking pencil
because I'm about to show you the wonders of HTTP/2.
Remember the human readability of requests and response headers?
Well, that's going to go. It's the first step to improve performance with HTTP/2.
It was nice while it lasted but nobody is really
benefiting from the plain text approach that HTTP/1 took.
We are wasting precious bytes by spelling things out in
text form when a single bit is sufficient. Don't worry, though.
Tools like Wireshark or dev tools will still let you see headers even with HTTP/2.
The second big problem HTTP/2 solves is head-of-line blocking.
It does this through a technique called multiplexing.
Multiplexing is a fancy sounding term that means
combining multiple signals into a new single signal.
With HTTP/2, we now have one connection instead of six.
That seems like a terrible step backwards at first but we are
using the single connection differently than HTTP/1 would have.
What used to be a dedicated connection in HTTP/1 is now
called a stream and all streams share that single connection.
These streams are split up into frames and are
being multiplexed onto that single connection.
When one stream is blocked,
another stream can take over the connection
and make good use of what would have been idle time.
Head-of-line blocking be gone.
Lastly, HTTP/2 takes care of header that are big uncompressed.
With HTTP/2, headers are not just being compressed with key zip.
The engineers came up with an HTTP/2 compression that is tailored
towards the specific structure of headers and the multiplexing feature of HTTP/2.
All streams not only share the connection but also the compressor.
This means a header never has to be sent twice since the compressor
recognizes that it's been sent before and sends a reference instead.
For example cookies are really long headers,
so it is an enormous advantage to say,
"Inject the same cookie header as thread requests ago here instead of the actual value".
I won't go into the intricacies of this compression algorithm.
But if you're interested in how it works,
there is some additional reading in the instructor notes.